Proxies (#186)
moondance-labs/tanssi-docs: builders/toolkit/ethereum-api/precompiles/proxy.md

---
title: The Proxy Precompile
description: Learn how to interact with the Proxy precompile to add and remove proxy accounts that can execute specific transactions on behalf of other account.
keywords: solidity, ethereum, proxy, moonbeam, precompiled, contracts, substrate
---

# Interacting with the Proxy Precompile

## Introduction {: #introduction }

> The Proxy Precompile allows accounts to set proxy accounts that can perform specific limited actions on their behalf, such as governance, balance transfers, management or privileged transactions, and others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Proxy Precompile allows accounts to set proxy accounts via the Ethereum API. Proxy accounts can perform limited actions on behalf of the proxied account, such as governance, balance transfers, management or privileged transactions, and others.
```

> If a user wanted to provide a second user access to a limited number of actions on their behalf, traditionally, the only method to do so would be by providing the first account's private key to the second. However, Tanssi EVM appchains include the proxy module, which enables proxy accounts. Proxy accounts ought to be used due to the additional layer of security they provide, where many accounts can perform actions for a primary account. This is best if, for example, a user wants to keep their wallet safe in cold storage but still wants to access parts of the wallet's functionality, like governance or staking.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user wanted to provide another user access to a limited number of actions on their behalf, traditionally, the only method to do so would be to share that account's private key. However, Tanssi EVM appchains include the proxy module, providing an additional layer of security. With proxies, many accounts can perform actions for a primary account, and such permissions can be revoked at any time. This is best if, for example, a user wants to keep their wallet safe in cold storage but still wants to access parts of the wallet's functionality, like governance or staking.  
```

    === "Parameters"

        - `delegate` ++"address"++ - the proxy address to remove
        - `proxyType` ++"ProxyType"++ - the delegation type to remove
        - `delay` ++"uint32"++ - number of blocks to wait until the removal is in effect

    === "Example"

        - `delegate` - 0x3f0Aef9Bd799F1291b80376aD57530D353ab0217
        - `proxyType` - "Any"
        - `delay` - 0

??? function "**removeProxies**() — removes all of the proxy accounts delegated to the sender"

??? function "**isProxy**(real, delegate, proxyType, delay) — returns `true` if the delegate address is a proxy of type `proxyType`, for address `real`, with the specified `delay`"

    === "Parameters"

        - `real` ++"address"++ - the account granting permissions to the proxy
        - `delegate` ++"address"++ - the proxy address
        - `proxyType` ++"ProxyType"++ - the delegation type
        - `delay` ++"uint32"++ - number of blocks to wait

    === "Example"

        - `delegate` - 0xbB8919d5DDfc85F4D15820a9e58018f1cfB39a2F
        - `delegate` - 0x3f0Aef9Bd799F1291b80376aD57530D353ab0217
        - `proxyType` - "Any"
        - `delay` - 0

> The `proxyType` parameter is defined by the following `ProxyType` enum, where the values start at `0` with the most permissive proxy type and are represented as `uint8` values:

Reviewer: Link to the next section

- **Any** — the any proxy will allow the proxy account to make any type of transaction. Note that balance transfers are only allowed to EOAs, not contracts or Precompiles
- **NonTransfer** — the non-transfer proxy allows the proxy account to make any type of transaction where the `msg.value` is checked to be zero
- **Governance** - the governance proxy will allow the proxy account to make any type of governance related transaction
- **CancelProxy** - the cancel proxy will allow the proxy account to reject and remove delayed proxy announcements (of the primary account). Currently, this is not an action supported by the Proxy Precompile
- **Balances** - the balances proxy will allow the proxy account to only make balance transfers to EOAs
 
!!! note
    The Solidity interface contains more proxy types than those listed above. The previous list includes only those proxy types implemented in the [baseline EVM Template](/builders/build/templates/evm/){target=\_blank}.

> ## Interact with the Solidity Interface via Remix {: #interact-with-the-solidity-interface-via-remix }

Reviewer: Add intro paragraph explaining that we will use the Demo EVM Appchain
